---
layout: post
title: Assignment 12 & Blog Post 11/19/2018
---

#  Bug Triage and Fixing

From the rules provided in *Chapter 6.7 - Bug Triage* of [*Practical Open Source Software Exploration*](https://quaid.fedorapeople.org/TOS/Practical_Open_Source_Software_Exploration/html/), I focused
on the rule "ensuring that the bug is sensible and helpful to developers". I personally felt that it was the most important
rule because I would not like to receive any bugs that aren't sensible or helpful if I was a developer. 

## Bug Chosen 

The bug that I chose to work on was called [1](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/1805415). The 
title of the bug alone made me look into it because it was so peculiar. I was really curious as to what the details were 
of this bug. So I click it...

What I saw left me puzzled. It had a listed description of the version they were using and what type of architecture they
were using it on but there was no issue stated. As in no issue message at all, which confused me and still does to be 
quite frank. I wasn't sure if I had missing something which led me to think that the title had some significance in the 
source package the bug was posted for, but it wasn't. I felt like the bug wasn't sensible so I posted a comment saying:

> Thank you for filing the bug, but maybe I am missing the issue... Can you provide more information as to what the issue is?

In the hopes that I would get a better explanation for the bug post. As of now I yet to receive a response from the
reporter, but I will keep this post up to date below whether they reply or not.

## Updates
Here you will see the latest update:

- A couple of hours after my comment, the reporter replied explaining that it was actually a hardware issue (an issue
  with his HDD to be exact) that cause an issue during his installation of Ubuntu 18.04.
 
This was a hardware issue not a software issue, which is not sensible but understandable as to why the reporter
posted the issue because I doubt they knew about their hardware issues. It is not always the first thought that
comes to mind.

# Blog 11/19/2018
I think that reporting useful and helpful bugs can really help the project it is being reported on because that way it can be resolved. It's extremely difficult to deliver a bug-free project at any size, I'm pretty sure that many of the projects I have handed in has a bug or two and I just didn't test all possible situations. When you have many eyes on a project, these bugs are spotted faster because someone is bound to encounter it at some point if it is there. The problem that comes with those many eyes is a situation like the one above, every so often you will receive a report with no substance. Thats just part of the open-source process.
