---
layout: post
title: Assignment 7
---

# Readings on Open Source (Part 2)

For this assignment, we were tasked with reading a few articles and a section of a textbook on how to contribute to an open-source project. The readings were:

- [A Beginner's Very Bumpy Journey Through The World of Open Source by Shubheksha Jalan](https://medium.freecodecamp.org/a-beginners-very-bumpy-journey-through-the-world-of-open-source-4d108d540b39)
- [How to Contribute to Open Source Without Coding by Craig Buchek](https://icontribute.wordpress.com/how-to-contribute-to-open-source-without-coding/)
- [GitHub's Guide to How to Contribute to Open Source](https://opensource.guide/how-to-contribute/#finding-a-project-to-contribute-to)
- [*Producing Open Source Software, 2nd edition* by Karl Fogel (pages 62-69)](https://producingoss.com/)

Out of these readings, the one that resonated with me the most was "A Beginner's Very Bumpy Journey Through The World of Open Source" by Shubheksha Jalan. Reason being is because Jalan pinpointed the feeling that I have when I think about contributing to an open-source project. It does feel intimidating to attempt to walk into an environment that you are not familiar with and try to understand the community norms/expectations that those who have more experience and time in said environment have somewhat mastered. It is very similar to moving to a different part of the world, where your idea of what is okay is different from those who have been in that location for a longer time than you. 

Her reasoning for wanting to contribute more than just small typos also echoed my mentality when thinking about contributing to an open-source project. Jalan says, "I’d learned so many new things, but I couldn’t figure out where to apply them. Just learning — without applying — counts for very little", which I think the majority of Computer Science majors can relate to. We learn so much in a rather small amount of time, while we apply this knowledge through projects and exams, I think that applying this knowledge on a larger scale is what most students want. In my opinion it helps to alleviate the fear of not knowing the role one can play in a large company. 
 
