---
layout: post
title: Assignment 11
---

# Setting Up A Project

The Open-Source Project that I will be working on is **CKB-Next**, it is an RBG Driver for Linux and Mac.
This is a project that I am genuinely interested in because like it was said in "The Cathedral and the Bazaar" 
by Eric Raymond, "Every good work of software starts by scratching a developer's personal itch". CKB-Next
solves a personal itch I have had for a few months now with no idea how to scratch it. Before I was introduced 
to CKB-Next, my Corsair K95 keyboard has had its default multi-colored spiral effect that after a short time can
get rather annoying and distracting. This does not occur on Windows because Corsair has a driver that can be 
downloaded to control the colors and effects, Corsair does not provide a similar driver for Linux. Once I
installed CKB-Next on to my Linux machine, I was immediately pleased to see that I could change the colors and
the effects with ease. Now, I want to see if there is anyway in which I can help to this wonderful project that
has solved one of my personal issues. The installation of the development environment was rather smooth, there
was no conflicts during this process and it only took a few minutes. I compiled and ran it on my local machine 
to ensure that it works fine, which it thankfully does. 

# Blog 11/12/2018
This blog post will be a simple one. **THANK YOU CKB-NEXT!**. It may not seem like a big issue to others, but the problem this application has solved for me is on that has bothered me for 3-4 months now. I am now back to getting distracted mid-assignment to mess with the colors on my keyboard as I did before.
