---
layout: post
title: Assignment 13 & Blog 12/12/2018
---
# Software Licenses
### Differences Between GNU Public Licenses 
- The GNU General Public License
> Using this license for a library makes it available only for **free** programs 
- The GNU Lesser General Public License
> Using this license for a library permits use of the library in **proprietary** programs
- The GNU Affero General Public License
> This license is based on the GNU GPL, but has an additional term to **allow users who interact with the licensed software over a network to receive the source for that program**

### What Distinguishes the GPLs, Apache and Mozilla licenses?
- The GNU General Public License is a free, copyleft license for software and other kinds of works.
- Apache License is a free software license, which is compatible with the GNU GPL V 3.0, but not with V 2.0. This is due to some requirements that are not in that GPL version, to be more specific there are certain patent termination provisions. From my understanding of the Apache License, in one broad stroke it means that one can do whatever they want with a program under that license as long as no one gets sued. In short, if you don't patent you won't have a problem.
- Mozilla Public License (MPL) is a free software license and while it is compatible with GNU GPL V 2.0 it is only under one specific circumstance. That circumstance being that the files that were originally under the MPL should still be available under the MPL's terms. In effect these files will end up being dual licensed under the MPL and the GNU GPLs.

### What is Copyleft?
- Copyleft is a general method for making a program free software and requiring all modified and extended versions of the program to be free software as well.
- Copyleft says that anyone who redistributes the software, with or without changes, must pass along the freedom to further copy and change it. Copyleft guarantees that every user has freedom.

Essentially, the program will never at any point in time will be made proprietary. 

### What is permissive?
- A "permissive" license is simply a non-copyleft open source license — one that guarantees the freedoms to use, modify, and redistribute, but that permits proprietary derivative works. 

Basically, a permissive license is a license that allows the distribution of modified work or derivative work. Which is why
it non-copyleft because it is similar to copyleft with the exception of granting permission to distribute derivative work.

### Creative Commons Licenses and Software 
Creative Commons licenses are not ideal for use with software because they do not contain specific terms about the distribution
of source code, which is often important in ensuring the freedom to use and modify said software. Also, Creative Commons(CC)
licenses are currently not compatible with the major software licenses, so trying to integrate work that has a CC license with
other free software may become rather difficult.


> NOTE: The information provided above comes from [here](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/)

# Blog 12/12/2018
When I first started working on the assignment above, I went through the list of licenses and all I could think about the how much there was. I honestly thought that there weren't that many licenses but then I started reading their descriptions and there seemed to be something for every type of product. Well I should say there was something for everybody since everyone has a different preference in regards to their projects and how they want to protect it from others or not. It is also super interesting how one license can be compatible with certain licenses but not with others due to a violation of the requirements of one to the other. I feel like that is where another license gets created, when two licenses aren't compatible because of one thing, a new license that just resolves that can be its own unique license.
