---
layout: post
title: Assignment 3
---

# Reading About A Wikipedia Controversy

Wikipedia is a free online encyclopedia, which is created and edited by volunteers around the world. One may think that anyone who is anyone can have a Wikipedia page since anyone can create one for them. In certain situations like the one presented in the article ["Running for office is hard when you have a 
porn star’s name. This makes it worse"](https://qz.com/1352568/running-for-office-is-hard-when-you-have-a-porn-stars-name-this-makes-it-worse/) written by Annalisa Merelli, we see that this is not always the case.

I'm a bit conflicted about this controversy because I can see the reasoning behind some of the actions committed on both sides of this story. A now former Wikipedia editor, Erika Herzog, attempted to create a Wikipedia page for Catalina Cruz.
> Catalina Cruz was running in a Democrat primary for a seat in the New York state assembly from Queens at the time

Herzog had a very valid and obvious reason to create a page for her alongside with a disambiguation page as seen in the article. I agree and understand the attempt to do this, what I do not agree with is her using another editor's real name taking away their anonymity which breaks Wikipedia's community code of cunduct. The decision to not publish this page is also understandable in a way because she was an unelected candidate for political office at the time which didn't make her "notable". What makes that decision a bit tricky is that Herzog did provide a great amount of citations, but they were mostly from Spanish publications. I feel like deciding who is notable and who is not notable is rather difficult, especially when that decision is not being constantly monitored so that it is the appropriate one.

Fast forward to September 13th, 2018 and Cruz won the election. Surely you would think that now that she won the election, a page will get published on Wikipedia about her right? I write this on September 20th, 2018 and when I google Catalina Cruz I do not see the Catalina Cruz who is now an elected local official. 
