---
layout: post
title: Assignment 1 & 2
---

# Assignment 1: Contributing to OpenStreetMap
I wasn't expecting to find many locations that had not been updated and/or never added, but I was very wrong. There is a mini outlet mall near my home and basically nothing had been added or updated. I added the name, address, and hours of operation to a few different stores such as Starbucks, AT&T, etc. While I was working on the assignment, I was in Williamsburg and decided to look around and I saw that Martha's Bakery's location was in the wrong place and updated it. In the link below you will be able to see these changes.  [Here's my OpenStreetMap history link](https://www.openstreetmap.org/user/johncgenere/history)


# Asssignment 2: Readings on History and Context

### Richard Stallman

These are three of the most signifcant things that Richard Stallman has done to advance the rise of the free and open software movement:

1. Launched the development of the free operating system GNU, in order to avoid the nonfree operating systems that deny freedom to their users in 1984
2. Distinguishing between Free Software and Open Source, noting that Open Source should be thought of as 'free speech' instead of 'free beer'. I interpreted this as one being able to do whatever one likes with the code, such as building upon it to fulfill their current need or give it to a friend. 
3. Developed the GNU General Public License (or the GNU GPL) which was designed to specifically protect the freedom of any user of a program in the 1980s. Not only did the GNU GPL protect the user's freedom but in the case where a user wanted to create another version of this software, they can do so with unlimited freedom. 

### Eric Raymond

Out of the several key principles in the development of an open source project that Eric Raymond identified, these are the two that striked me as signigicant:

1. "Every good work of software starts by scratching a developer's personal itch"
> Funnily enough, this was the concept behind my decision to study computer science without me really knowing it. I have always played video games and in the midst of beating a boss level or simply playing through I would say “Why not do this.. What if instead of..” followed by some game altering scenario to fix something that bothered me. I decided that I wanted to one day know how it all works and hopefully contribute to it in some way. 
  
2. "Given a large enough beta-tester and co-developer base, almost every problem will be characterized quickly and the fix obvious to someone"
> This is significant because it holds true in any occasion. I can’t remember the amount of times that I can’t find a bug in a program and when I show it to a friend they find it with ease. That added perspective helps you see what you would eventually find quicker while removing the bias you have towards your own code. This was a very minor example where it’s just one other person’s perspective, imagine how much greater effect it will be when you have 100+ pairs of eyeballs analyzing one thing. 
