---
layout: post
title: Assignment 12
---

#  Bug Triage and Fixing

From the rules provided in *Chapter 6.7 - Bug Triage* of [*Practical Open Source Software Exploration*](https://quaid.fedorapeople.org/TOS/Practical_Open_Source_Software_Exploration/html/), I focused
on ensuring that the bug is sensible and helpful to developers. I personally felt that it was the most important
rule because I would not like to receive any bugs that aren't sensible or helpful if I was a developer. 

## Bug Chosen 

The bug that I chose to work on was called [1](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/1805415). The 
title of the bug alone made me look into it because it was so peculiar. I was really curious as to what the details were 
of this bug. So I click it...

What I saw left me puzzled. It had a listed description of the version they were using and what type of architecture they
were using it on but there was no issue stated. As in no issue message at all, which confused me and still does to be 
quite frank. I wasn't sure if I had missing something which led me to think that the title had some significance in the 
source package the bug was posted for, but it wasn't. I felt like the bug wasn't sensible so I posted a comment saying:

> Thank you for filing the bug, but maybe I am missing the issue... Can you provide more information as to what the issue is?

In the hopes that I would get a better explanation for the bug post. As of now I yet to receive a response from the
reporter, but I will keep this post up to date below whether they reply or not.

## Updates
Here you will see the dates in which I have checked the original bug post to see if the reporter has replied to my comment:

- As of 11/27/2018, the reporter has not replied to me.
